# MPhil_Project
# Abstract
Incidents that occur with the ATMs have being a great concern and their effects have extremely affected the financial institutions delivery worldwide. To add to the financial losses incurred, clients who patronize ATMs for financial transactions suffer a downtime experience because service providers cannot detect incidents at the onset. ATM incidents are committed through users of ATMs and its operations. The need to develop a Self-Reporting System for ATM Incident Detection (SRSAID) for efficient, self-report incidents detection processing to counteract downtime experience encountered by the users of the ATM, ATM service Provider Company and the Banks is very crucial. This paper utilized the ATM tampering images and the 2018 ATM system defects incidents dataset obtained from the internet and NCR in Ghana, respectively, for detecting incidents. R-CNN and support vector machines (SVM) which were fine-tuned by regression model and optuna respectively, which are algorithms that provide the automatic detection of incidents and periodic updates on the dashboard is used through the implementation of Python 3 on raspberry pi along with hardware modules such as GPS and GSM modules. With the security aspect of this study, the results obtained from the experimental processes attest to the fact that the R-CNN have better classification performance when utilized and security incident detection. Two (2) CNN architectures were evaluated for the security aspect of the incidents and their performance compared. Experimental results for security incident detection show ATM security incidents detection classification accuracy via the CNN architectures, the two CNN architectures (ALEXNET (80%) and ssdlite_mobilenet_V2 (96%).  With the defect detection aspect of this study, the results obtained from the experimental processes attest to the fact that the SVM is endowed with better classification performance when utilized implementing the SVM kernel classifiers. Initially, three SVM kernel classifiers were evaluated as linear (70.6%), polynomial (72.56%), and radial basis function (RBF) kernel (81.21%). Based on the results obtained, there was a need to improve the accuracy of the SVM classifiers. An efficient hyperparameter optimization technique was adopted to optimize the SVM model, and their results were compared for the defects aspect of incident detection. Experimental processes demonstrated appreciable decrease in computational time with the defect incident detection aspect of this study while improving classification accuracies of the SVM kernel classifiers, namely; SVM-Linear, 76%, SVM-Polynomial, 77% and SVM-Radial Basis, 86%. Comprehensive analysis and validation of Machine Learning (ML) algorithms used gave positive results. Web graphical user interface (UI) to enhance analysis of incidents was incorporated to allow decision-making to overcome downtown experience

This repository contains all the source codes for Ivy Nkrumah Payne MPhil Project on the topic Self-reporting System for ATM Incidents Detection.

